1. INTRODUCTION 
By George M. 


Low Manned Spacecraft Center On July 20, 1969, man first set foot on another planet. This "giant leap for mankind" represented one of the greatest engineering achievements of all time. This article and the others in this document describe and discuss some of the varied tasks behind this achievement. We will limit ourselves to those tasks that were the direct responsibility of the NASA Manned Spacecraft Center: spacecraft development, mission design and mission planning, flight crew operations, and flight operations. We will describe spacecraft design principles, the all-important spacecraft test activities, and the discipline that evolved in the control of spacecraft changes and the closeout of spacecraft anomalies; and we will discuss how we determined the best series of flights to lead to a lunar landing at the earliest possible time, how these flights were planned in detail, the techniques used in establishing flight procedures and carrying out flight operations, and, finally, crew training and simulation activities -- the activities that led to a perfect flight execution by the astronauts. In short, we will describe three of the basic ingredients of the success of Apollo: spacecraft hardware that is most reliable, flight missions that are extremely well planned and executed, and flight crews that are superbly trained and skilled. (We will not discuss two equally important aspects of Apollo -- the launch vehicles and launch operations. These elements, the responsibility of the NASA Marshall Space Flight Center and the NASA Kennedy Space Center, go beyond the scope of this series of articles. ) SPACECRAFT DEVELOPMENT Four aspects of spacecraft development stand out: design, test, control of changes, and interpretation of discrepancies. We can begin with them. Spacecraft Design The principles of manned spacecraft design involve a combination of aircraftdesign practice and elements of missile-design technology: Build it simple and then double up on many components or systems so that if one fails the other will take over. Examples are ablative thrust chambers that do not require regenerative cooling; hypergolic propellants that do not require an ignition source; three fuel cells, where one alone could bring the spacecraft back from the moon; series/parallel redundancy in valves, regulators, capacitors, and diodes so that neither an "open" nor a "closed" failure will be catastrophic. Another important design rule, which we have not discussed as often as we should, reads: Minimize functional interfaces between complex pieces of hardware. In this way, two organizations can work on their own hardware relatively independently. Examples in Apollo include the interfaces between the spacecraft and launch vehicle and between the command module and the lunar module. Only some 100 wires link the Saturn launch vehicle and the Apollo spacecraft, and most of these have to do with the emergency detection system. The reason thatthis number could not be even smaller is twofold: Redundant circuits are employed, and the electrical power always comes from the module or stage where a function is to be performed. For example, the closing of relays in the launch vehicle could, in an automatic abort mode, fire the spacecraft escape motor. But the electrical power to do this, by design, originates in the spacecraft batteries. The main point is that a single man can fully understand this interface and can cope with all the effects of a change on either side of the interface. If there had been 10 times as many wires, it probably would have taken a hundred (or a thousand?) times as many people to handle the interface. Another design question for manned flight concerns theuse of man himself. Here again, we find no simple rule as to how man should interface with his machine. Generally, tedious, repetitive tasks are best performed automatically; and selection of the best data source to use, selection of control modes, and switching between redundant systems are tasks best performed by the pilot. In Apollo, the trend has been to rely more and more on automatic modes as systems experience has been gained. For example, computer programs for rendezvous were reworked to require far less operator input than had originally been planned, but the entire rendezvous sequence was designed so that the pilot could always monitor the automatic system's performance and apply a backup solution if deviations were noted. A tremendous amount of time and effort was spent to determine how the crew could best decide which data source to use and which of many redundant systems to rely on. This was always a basic missiondesign consideration. The concept of inflight maintenance was discarded entirely as being impractical for flights with the specific purpose and duration of Apollo. In its place, more telemetry was added and full advantage was taken of the ground's ability to assess system performance, predict trends, and compare data with preflight test exp